README.md, before:



[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/11062/dylanstorey/HTseqQA.svg)](http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.16281)


HTseqQA
=======
Quality control for data generated by Illumina Sequencing. 

Why?
=======
We needed a scalable local solution for generating quality control reports in the 100k Genomes Project.
We started with these measurements and visualizations and will likely add more later.

Installation/Dependencies:
==========================
The program will need to have a c++11 compatible compiler. To visualize the graphs you'll need R and ggplot2. 

Usage:
=======

`./HTseqQA <options> -i <fastq or gzip'd fastq> `

You can set the phred offset manually :

`./HTseqQA -o <64|33> -i test.fastq.gz`

The output is a text file with an extension of '.R' and run through R to get your graph out.

If you need to be running many files I suggest using parallel:

`parallel HTseqQA -i {} ::: /path/to/all/*.fastqs`

On a standard computer we're able to process 4000+ files over night. 

Cumulative Quality Scores
--------------------------
![Cumulative Quality Scores Graph](https://github.com/dylanstorey/HTseqQA/blob/master/documentation/test.cqs.png)

Nucleotide Proportions
---------------------------
![Nucleotide Proportions](https://github.com/dylanstorey/HTseqQA/blob/master/documentation/test.ntbps.png)

Quality Distributions by Position
----------------------------------
![Quality Distributions by Position](https://github.com/dylanstorey/HTseqQA/blob/master/documentation/test.qdbs.png)

Passing Reads Filter
--------------------
![Passing Reads Filter](https://github.com/dylanstorey/HTseqQA/blob/master/documentation/test.prf.png)

Sequence Uniqueness
--------------------
![Passing Reads Filter](https://github.com/dylanstorey/HTseqQA/blob/master/documentation/test.novelty.png)

Commit message:

updated usage, read me , etc

README.md, after:



[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/11062/dylanstorey/HTseqQA.svg)](http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.16281)


HTseqQA
=======
Quality control for data generated by Illumina Sequencing. 

Why?
=======
We needed a scalable local solution for generating quality control reports in the 100k Genomes Project.
We started with these measurements and visualizations and will likely add more later.

Installation/Dependencies:
==========================
The program will need to have a c++11 compatible compiler. To visualize the graphs you'll need R and ggplot2. 

Usage:
=======

`./HTseqQA <options> -i <fastq or gzip'd fastq> `

Other options

`-o <int> , manually set the offset`

`-r , Only print out the Rscript for figure generation`

`-g , Creat a greyscale version of graphs`

If you need to be running many files I suggest using parallel:

`parallel HTseqQA -i {} ::: /path/to/all/*.fastqs`

On a standard computer we're able to process 4000+ files for bacterial genomes over night. 

Read Counts
-----------
Simple text file that tells you the number of reads seen.

Cumulative Quality Scores
--------------------------
![Cumulative Quality Scores Graph](https://github.com/dylanstorey/HTseqQA/blob/master/documentation/test.cqs.png)

Nucleotide Proportions
---------------------------
![Nucleotide Proportions](https://github.com/dylanstorey/HTseqQA/blob/master/documentation/test.ntbps.png)

Quality Distributions by Position
----------------------------------
![Quality Distributions by Position](https://github.com/dylanstorey/HTseqQA/blob/master/documentation/test.qdbs.png)

Passing Reads Filter
--------------------
![Passing Reads Filter](https://github.com/dylanstorey/HTseqQA/blob/master/documentation/test.prf.png)

Sequence Uniqueness
--------------------
![Passing Reads Filter](https://github.com/dylanstorey/HTseqQA/blob/master/documentation/test.novelty.png)

Read GC Content Distrubution
----------------------------
![GC Content Distribution](https://github.com/dylanstorey/HTseqQA/blob/master/documentation/test.gcdist.png)
